Initial Signals Docs (#1197)
snowplow/documentation: docs/signals/batch_engine/index.md

---
title: "Batch Engine"
sidebar_position: 40
description: "In depth explanation on how the Batch Engine works."
sidebar_label: "Batch Engine"
---

While many `Attributes` can be computed in stream, those that have to be calculated over a longer period (e.g. a day or more), can only be created "offline" in the warehouse. We call them `Batch Attributes`. 

One advantage of computing batch attributes over stream is that the computation can go back in history based on what you have already available in the atomic events dataset.

The entity here is typically the user, which may be the `domain_userid` or other Snowplow identifier fields, such as the logged in `user_id`. 

:::info

> For now, only the `domain_userid` can be used, but shortly we will extend support for all Snowplow identifiers

Reviewer: does this also apply to the stream source?

:::info
For those familiar with existing Snowplow dbt packages, it is worth to note that the incrementalization follows a completely different logic, based on newly loaded data and not by reprocessing sessions as a whole.
:::

There is a second layer of incremental processing logic dictated by the `daily_aggregation_manifest` table. After the `filtered_events` table is created or updated, the `daily_aggregates` table gets updated with the help of this manifest. It is needed due to late arriving data, which may mean that some days will need to be reprocessed as a whole. For optimization purposes there are variables to fine-tune how this works such as the `snowplow__reprocess_days` and the `snowplow__min_rows_to_process`.

> Finally, the `Attributes` table is generated which is a drop and recompute table, fully updated each time an incremental update runs. This is made possible without much effort as the data is already pre-aggregated on a daily level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the `Attributes` table is generated which is a drop and recompute table, fully updated each time an incremental update runs. This is cost-effective as the data is already pre-aggregated on a daily level.
```

![](../images/batch_engine_data_models.png)

> ## Variables

Reviewer: what are the defaults?

> ## Variables

Reviewer: this section should go higher on the page, under Generating the dbt project
